>> Ben Hong: You all have now gotten
essentially a good overview of what
composables are, what they're capable of,
and some different patterns for
implementing things.
So what I have for
you here is a fun challenge.
We are first going to start by creating
a use theme composable that allows you to
switch between the different themes and
you'll find this on the Settings page.
Then I want you to combine
this with the viewus,
which is already installed as a dependency
in your app, the Use Magic Keys for
a way to switch between different
themes using just keyboard shortcuts.
Your mission is to go explore the docs,
okay?
So you should know how to go through
the use theme, go into the settings, but
now you're going to want to figure
out how you can combine that with
Vue Uses Use Magic keys, which, by the
way, one of my favorite things they did,
which part of the reason I want you
all to play with it and combine them.
And I'm kind of curious to see what you
all wanna do or end up doing with that.
That said, in the event you're like, eh,
I don't know, I don't want to do that,
then the exercise here is to use
what you know about Composables.
Pick something in Vue Use that
looks like it might be fun or
might apply to your project, and
then basically combine those and
then see how it works again.
What's fun about Composition API is that
you have a lot of different ways to do it.
So what I'm going to be proposing is one
way of doing it, and then, you know,
compare, contrast and
see how it compares to yours.
Okay, so first thing first,
we look, actually,
we can look at the docs in a second.
So first thing first,
we know that we need to go ahead and
abstract out the functionality that
we see inside of Settings View,
because this is ultimately where we see
the theme being ultimately managed.
And so my first instinct with this is to
go ahead, as I think a lot of you did.
We just have a useTheme.ts,
we don't need to get too fancy.
And then I'm actually just
gonna grab everything.
I don't think there's
kind of a point not to.
And so what we do know is that here we
are clearly watching some of this stuff.
So honestly, at this point,
to keep it easy, I am of the mind,
I'm just gonna make all of these
individual things that I can export.
I don't think I need a full
store model just yet.
Now, the tricky thing, though,
is that this Watch Lifecycle Hook is
not something that you can just like.
You can't just like export this.
That's not like a thing.
And so what you need to do instead is to
have a function that's basically something
like use theme.
So this is where the factory
does come into play.
Because then you're basically saying when
you initiate this, initiate the watch and
then set it accordingly.
And then to make sure this is working,
we just need to import
everything from the composable.
So composable slash, use theme.
Great.
All right, so what do we need?
We need current theme and
we need on theme change.
Ooh, what was on theme change?
Okay, looks like on theme
change was most likely some
sort of watch effect in that regard, so.
Nope, that doesn't make.
Okay, I know what it is.
So we need to actually set the setTheme.
Yep.
So we need to set the theme every
time the select thing changes.
And then why is it yelling at me now?
Theme string is not
available to parameter.
What did I forget?
onThemeChange.
Yep, that did not exist, though.
>> Speaker 2: Aren't we
doing it with the watcher?
>> Ben Hong: Yeah, that's kind of funny.
So I don't.
Yeah, so actually, you know what?
I think now I remember.
I think this is actually not relevant,
this code,
because we have a V model here already.
So having a second function
method on that is irrelevant.
So, yeah, I think you're spot on on that.
So we have our themes here,
which is great.
Now everything's good.
But I think you all know
where I'm headed with this.
If we go ahead and test this out
right now inside of our app, okay?
We're still up and running.
Nothing is happening.
And the reason for that is because we
need the ability to watch the thing.
So this is where our use theme function
is going to come into play here.
So like this and then useTheme like that.
And I think refresh.
There you go.
Now it works.
Okay, so here's the question, right?
We wanna now use the vueUse magic key.
So we look at the magic keys and
again, this thing, I just love it.
The fact that it just makes it like,
look at that.
If you push and it rotates.
So it's like if you do vue and
then shift, it'll rotate.
I don't know.
Great demo.
Whoever came up with that.
And so the fact that you can
just name it by namespace.
This is great.
Okay, so knowing this is how
it's possible to be used.
Let's see, how do I want to do this?
You can export them out this way or
we can just do it.
Let's see.
And
then also we can do combinations here,
right?
So this, we can just plus them together.
Looks like this is another alternative
as well to like use underscores.
So I'm going to do something
like control shift and
then like a number to represent like the
number to the correspond with the themes.
So in my mind when I'm looking at this.
So let me go ahead and
I just need to grab this, actually,
I'll just grab this right here for now.
I'm thinking, okay, so yes,
this composable is responsible for
changing the theme, but I'm now gonna have
this different composable because now I'm
doing reactivity with hotkeys.
So for
me I'm going to do one called use hotkeys.
And then inside of here
we're basically going to do.
Let's see, how do we want to do this?
We need to instantiate it because
ultimately what we need to do is be
able to listen for it.
And so I've read this, the docs on this
and so there's actually this thing called
whenever, which is a great,
great utility function.
Whenever this thing happens,
this gets pressed.
Then do a callback
function to do said thing.
So this is where the composition
starts to come into play.
Right.
So in my mind, so export function,
use hotkey.
Let's see, I'll say hot theme keys.
That's what I'm gonna call it because
that's what specifically these hotkeys do.
And so I'm gonna say const
keys equals useMagicKeys().
And then just to make things a bit easier,
then we'll basically say whenever
keys dot and inside the control
shift one then we get a function and
what do we want this function to do?
Well, I wanted to change themes,
so I'm going to import my themes,
let's see, set theme from my composable.
But I also need to be able to
reference the themes themselves.
So that way I should be able
to do something like this.
I need one of her too.
Okay, and so in terms of where
I want to listen to this,
if you put this on the settings page,
that means it only will work on there.
So my first instinct then is
to go to the app view page and
inside here is where I would
say import use hot theme keys.
And then here let's do use
hot theme keys like that.
Okay, so let me just do a couple
real quick and see if this works.
We could obviously just loop it, but
Just for now, for simplicity sake.
Okay, Refresh.
Okay.
We go to the home and then control shift.
1, 2, 3, up.
There we go.
And it's shifting.
I did in my demo, for some reason, the.
It's not respecting the second theme.
I don't know why, to be honest with you.
I'm hitting two and it's doing nothing,
but it gives me the other ones.
So that's something else to debug for
another time.
But this is, I guess,
one version of how this
might be implemented the way
I was thinking of this.
And this is where
the composition comes into play.
Because what we've done is we've taken
this use theme here, which definitely
lives on the settings page right here, and
it's doing all the watching at this level.
But then Use Hotkeys only has to worry
about setting the theme because we know
that it's being watched elsewhere.
And then I guess from what we can see,
it's reactively updating accordingly.
So then I think that solves the multiple
watchers thing that you were
running into, right?
So, yeah, how does that compare to
some of the stuff you all tried?
>> Speaker 2: I did that cycler that just
ran through the indexes of the theme and
then gets back to zero.
>> Ben Hong: Nice.
Yep, definitely more elegant than this,
for sure.
[LAUGH] Yeah, and so
this kind of fun stuff.
One thing I like about things like vueUse,
right?
Because something like Hotkeys is actually
traditionally kind of a tricky thing to
implement, right.
If you're gonna do it from scratch.
And I do think as more and more we look at
software where we're looking at keyboard
accessibility and stuff, being able to
let users customize their hotkeys and
do all sorts of cool combinations
of whatever they want so
they can run whatever command they want.
Like, I do think that opens the doorway
for just all sorts of customization.
So personally, this is one of the reasons
this is one of my favorite utilities
that they provide, because then it just.
It becomes so easy to allow users
to determine what they wanna add.
And then all of a sudden, boom,
you have personalization to that degree.
And so I can't stress this enough.
This is just one way to do it.
We already heard doing more of
a cyclical going through the themes.
Again, this is very hard coded, but yeah,
this is just wanted to have
some separation of concerns.
I mean, some people you could
even theoretically all do within
use theme as well.
It's just up to you.
And so that's why it's very much.
Programming is an art in that way as
we decide what tools we want to use,
how we want to architect things and
what we think makes the most sense as a
final shout out to the things that I also
think you should consider whenever
you have a chance for your apps.
So earlier you mentioned
the useMedia player.
So for those who in the was
it using controls, right?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Ben Hong: Yeah.
So if ever you had to create like
a video player, you have to, you know,
if you ever done in the old days,
you know, it's incredibly painful.
Usually there was like a dedicated
library that did it all for you.
This thing can break it down.
I think I don't want the sound to come on.
We can see that it has all these reactive
properties of the time being set,
duration is waiting, seeking, stall.
Like just actually it even
tells you how much is buffered.
It's just the level of thought that's
gone into some of this stuff is wild.
Honestly, just kudos to the team
who spent the effort to do this.
>> Speaker 2: The whole tracks piece
which lets you do the subtitles.
>> Ben Hong: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Or closed captions for
the video is also super helpful for
accessibility.
>> Ben Hong: Yeah.
So this is a fun one again.
So if you're ever doing like,
eyedroppers is a fun one if you ever just
wanna pick colors and then clipboard.
Again, if you ever need access
to user clipboard history,
it's just use clipboard and
then it's there.
I mean it's that easy.
And then the one that though I think most
of us basically need though is useref
history.
They also have a use debounce ref
history in case it's too much and
basically allowing you to then
watch what happens to the count and
then actually then track
have some basic history.
Because undo and redo is a thing that
I think users are becoming more and
more used to being able to
do as we see with emails and
stuff like,
do you want to undo what you just sent?
So this kind of helper
can be a lot of help for
those of us that are like,
actually how do we undo this?